New content feature Pay-as-you-go (#1382)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/installation-and-upgrade/pages/connect-payg.adoc

[[connect.payg.instances]]
= Connect {payg} instance

In the three major public cloud providers (AWS, GCP and Azure), SUSE:

> * provides customized {payg} product images (eg. SLES, SLES for SAP...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* provides customized {payg} product images for SLES, SLES for SAP, etc.
```

* operates per-region RMT Servers mirroring repositories for products available as {payg}

This document describes how to connect existing {payg} instance to {productname} server, and gives basic information about instance statuses.

Before using {payg} feature make sure that: 

* {productname} server is deployed in the same region as the {payg} instance

> * valid {scc} credentials iare entered in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Organization Credentials``, even they provide only limited access to products

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* valid {scc} credentials are entered in menu:Admin[Setup Wizard > Organization Credentials], even they provide only limited access to products
```

== Connecting {payg} instance

[[proc-conencting-new-payg]]

> .Procedure: Conencting new {payg}  instance

Reviewer 2: this data is added in the page section `Instance SSH connection data`

[role=procedure]

> . In the [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}`` click btn:[Add {payg}].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate  to menu:Admin[Setup Wizard > {payg}], and click btn:[Add {payg}].
```

> . In the new screen, click btn:[Create] to add new {payg} connection data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the new screen, click btn:[Create] to add new {payg} connection data.
```

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Description], add the description of the newly created connection.

Reviewer 2: payg connection is only created after fields are set and user clicks on create button, after the procedure `proc-finishing-payg-connecting`

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Hostname], enter the actual name of the instance as it appears on the cloud.

Reviewer 2: Field name is `Host`

. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Port], enter 22.

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Username], add the actual username as specified in the cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Username], add the actual username as specified in the cloud.
```

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Username], add the actual username as specified in the cloud.

Reviewer 2: field name is `User`

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Password], enter the password
> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Key], add the correct instance key
> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Key Password], add key passphrase

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Password], enter the password.
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Key], add the correct instance key.
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Key Password], add key passphrase.
```

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Key Password], add key passphrase.

Reviewer 2: Field name is: `SSH Private Key Passphrase`

[IMPORTANT]
====
Authentication keys must always be in PEM format.
====

If you are not connecting directly to the cloud, but via SSH bastion, proceed with <<proc-adding-ssh-bastion-connection-data>>.

Otherwise, continue with <<proc-finishing-payg-connecting>>.

[[proc-adding-ssh-bastion-connection-data]]

> .Procedure: Adding SSH bastion connection data

Reviewer 2: The data is added in the page section `Bastion SSH connection data`

[role=procedure]

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Hostame], add the bastion hostname.

Reviewer 2: field name is `host`

. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Port], add the bastion port number.

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Username], add bastion the username.

Reviewer 2: field name is `User`

. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Password], add bastion password.

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Key], add bastion key.

Reviewer 2: Field name is `SSH Private Key`

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Hostame], add the bastion hostname
> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Port], add the bastion port number
> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Username], add bastion the username
> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Password], add bastion password
> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Key], add bastion key
> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Key Password], add bastion key password
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Hostame], add the bastion hostname.
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Port], add the bastion port number.
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Username], add bastion the username.
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Password], add bastion password.
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Key], add bastion key.
. In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Key Password], add bastion key password.

```

> . In the menu:Add new {payg} data[Bastion Key Password], add bastion key password.

Reviewer 2: Field name is `SSH Private Key Passphrase`

Complete the setup process with with <<proc-finishing-payg-connecting>>.

[[proc-finishing-payg-connecting]]
.Procedure: Finishing {payg} connecting
[role=procedure]

> . Click btn:[Create] to complete adding new {payg} connection data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To complete adding new {payg} connection data, click btn:[Create].
```

> . You will return to [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Pay-as-you-go`` screen.

Reviewer 2: It will navegate to the PAYG connection data Details page. The update connection status will be displayed on the top section named `Information`

. If the authentication data for the instance are correct, the column Status will soon show "Credentials successfully updated".

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If the invalid data are entered at any point, the newly created instance will be shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}``, with column Status displaying error message.

Reviewer 2: After creation, the detail about the payg ssh connection data will be displayed. 
The status is also displayed in the payg ssh connection data list.

====

As soon as the authentication data is available on the server, a list of available products is updated.

Available products are all versions of the same product family and architecture as the one installed in the {payg} instance. 

> E.g. if the instance has {slsa}15 SP1 product installed, {slsa}15 SP2 and {slsa}15 SP3 will be automatically added and shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Products``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if the instance has the {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP1 product installed, {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP2 and {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP3 will be automatically added and shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Products``. 
```

> Once the products are shown as available, they need to be scheduled for syncing by selecting the checkbox next to the product name and clicking btn:[Add product].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the products are shown as available, the user can add a product to {productname} by selecting the checkbox next to the product name and clicking btn:[Add product].
```

> To monitor the progress of channel syncing in GUI, go to [guimenu]``Software > Channel List > All``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor the progress of channel syncing in the {webui}, navigate to [guimenu]``Software > Channel List > All``. 
```

> To monitor the progress of channel syncing in the {webui}, navigate to [guimenu]``Software > Channel List > All``. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the success message user can verify the newly added channels in the {webui}, navigate to [guimenu]``Software > Channel List > All``. 
```

> To monitor the syncing progress in the log files, go to /var/log/rhn/reposync directory on the {productname} server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor the syncing progress, check the log files in the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync`` directory on the {productname} server.
```

> To monitor the syncing progress, check the log files in the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync`` directory on the {productname} server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To monitor the syncing progress of each channel, check the log files in the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync`` directory on the {productname} server.
```

=== Deleting the instance

> The following procedure describes how to delete the instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following procedure describes how to delete ssh connection data to the instance.
```

[[proc-deleting-payg-instance]]
.Procedure: Deleting {payg} instance
[role=procedure]

> . Go to [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}``
> . Find the instance on the list of existing instances
> . Click on the instance details
> . Select btn:[Delete] and confirm your selection
> . You will be returned to the list of instances and the one that was just deleted will no longer be shown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Navigate to [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}``.
. Find the instance on the list of existing instances.
. Click the instance details page.
. Select btn:[Delete] and confirm your selection
. You will be returned to the list of instances and the one that was just deleted will no longer be shown
```

> == Instance status and availability  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Instance credential collect status
```

{productname} server uses instance credentails to connect to the RMT server and to download the packages using reposync.

> These credentials are refreshed every 10 minutes by taskomatic, which always uses the last known authentication credentials to access the instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These credentials are refreshed every 10 minutes by taskomatic using the defined ssh connection data. Connection to RMT server always uses the last known authentication credentials collected from the payg instance.
```

> Up-to date status of the {payg} instance is shown in the column Status or on the instance details page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Up to date status of the {payg} instance is shown in the column [guimenu]``Status`` or on the instance details page.
```

When the instance is not reachable, the reposync will fail.

{payg} instance remains connected to {productname} server unless it is explicitly deleted.

> To delete the instance, use <<proc-deleting-payg-instance>>. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete the instance connection data, use <<proc-deleting-payg-instance>>. 
```

* valid {scc} credentials are entered in menu:Admin[Setup Wizard > Organization Credentials], even they provide only limited access to products

== Connecting {payg} instance

[[proc-connecting-new-payg]]
.Procedure: Connecting new {payg} instance
[role=procedure]
. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate  to menu:Admin[Setup Wizard > {payg}], and click btn:[Add {payg}].
. Start with the page section [guimenu]``{payg} connection Description``.
. In the [guimenu]``Description`` field, add the description.
. Move to the page section [guimenu]``Instance SSH connection data``.
. In the [guimenu]``Host`` field, enter the instance DNS or IP address to connect from {productname}.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Port`` field, enter the port number or use default value 22.
. In the [guimenu]``User`` field, enter the username as specified in the cloud.
. In the [guimenu]``Password`` field, enter the password.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Private Key`` field, enter the instance key.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Private Key Passphrase`` field, enter the key passphrase.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Authentication keys must always be in PEM format.
====

> If you are not connecting directly to the cloud, but via SSH bastion, proceed with <<proc-adding-ssh-bastion-connection-data>>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are not connecting directly to the instance, but via SSH bastion, proceed with <<proc-adding-ssh-bastion-connection-data>>.
```

. In the [guimenu]``SSH Port`` field, enter the bastion port number.
. In the [guimenu]``User`` field, enter the bastion username.
. In the [guimenu]``Password`` field, enter the bastion password.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Private Key`` field, enter the bastion key.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Private Key Passphrase`` field, enter the bastion key passphrase.

Complete the setup process with with <<proc-finishing-payg-connecting>>.

[[proc-finishing-payg-connecting]]
.Procedure: Finishing {payg} connecting
[role=procedure]
. To complete adding new {payg} connection data, click btn:[Create].
. Return to {payg} connection data [guimenu]``Details`` page. 
    The updated connection status is displayed on the top section named [guimenu]``Information``.
. Connection status is shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Pay-as-you-go`` screen too.
. If the authentication data for the instance are correct, the column [guimenu]``Status`` shows "Credentials successfully updated".

[IMPORTANT]
====
If the invalid data are entered at any point, the newly created instance is shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}``, with column i[guimenu]``Status`` displaying error message.
====

> As soon as the authentication data is available on the server, a list of available products is updated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As soon as the authentication data is available on the server, the list of available products is updated.
```

Available products are all versions of the same product family and architecture as the one installed in the {payg} instance. 

> For example, if the instance has the {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP1 product installed, {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP2 and {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP3 are automatically added and shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Products``. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if the instance has the {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP1 product installed, {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP2 and {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP3 are automatically shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Products``. 
```

Once the products are shown as available, the user can add a product to {productname} by selecting the checkbox next to the product name and clicking btn:[Add product].

After the success message you can verify the newly added channels in the {webui}, by navigating to [guimenu]``Software > Channel List > All``. 

To monitor the syncing progress of each channel, check the log files in the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync`` directory on the {productname} server.

=== Deleting the instance connection data

The following procedure describes how to delete SSH connection data of the instance.

[[proc-deleting-connection-data-to-instance]]
.Procedure: Deleting connection data to instance
[role=procedure]
. Open [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}``.
. Find the instance on the list of existing instances.
. Click on the instance details.
. Select btn:[Delete] and confirm your selection.
. You are returned to the list of instances. 
    The one that was just deleted is no longer shown.

== Instance credential collect status

> {productname} server uses instance credentails to connect to the RMT server and to download the packages using reposync.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{productname} server uses credentails collected from the instance to connect to the RMT server and to download the packages using reposync.
```

These credentials are refreshed every 10 minutes by taskomatic using the defined SSH connection data. Connection to RMT server always uses the last known authentication credentials collected from the {payg} instance.

> Up-to date status of the {payg} instance is shown in the column Status or on the instance details page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Up-to date status of the {payg} instance credentials collect is shown in the column Status or on the instance details page.
```

> When the instance is not reachable, the reposync will fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the instance is not reachable, the credential update process will fail.
```

> {payg} instance remains connected to {productname} server unless it is explicitly deleted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{payg} instance remains connected to {productname} server unless ssh connection data is explicitly deleted.
```

> To delete the SSH connection datato the instance, use <<proc-deleting-connection-data-to-instance>>. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete the SSH connection data to the instance, use <<proc-deleting-connection-data-to-instance>>. 
```

 

{payg} instance may not be accessible from the {productname} server at all times.

. If the instance exists, but is stopped, the last known credentials will be used to try to connect to the instance. 

>     How long the credentials remain available depends on the cloud provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    How long the credentials remain valid depends on the cloud provider.
```

.Procedure: Adding SSH bastion connection data
[role=procedure]
. Navigate to the page section [guimenu]``Bastion SSH connection data``.
. In the [guimenu]``Host`` field, enter the bastion hostname.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Port`` field, enter the bastion port number.
. In the [guimenu]``User`` field, enter the bastion username.
. In the [guimenu]``Password`` field, enter the bastion password.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Private Key`` field, enter the bastion key.
. In the [guimenu]``SSH Private Key Passphrase`` field, enter the bastion key passphrase.

Complete the setup process with with <<proc-finishing-payg-connecting>>.

[[proc-finishing-payg-connecting]]
.Procedure: Finishing {payg} connecting
[role=procedure]
. To complete adding new {payg} connection data, click btn:[Create].
. Return to {payg} connection data [guimenu]``Details`` page. 
    The updated connection status is displayed on the top section named [guimenu]``Information``.
. Connection status is shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Pay-as-you-go`` screen too.
. If the authentication data for the instance are correct, the column [guimenu]``Status`` shows "Credentials successfully updated".

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If the invalid data are entered at any point, the newly created instance is shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}``, with column i[guimenu]``Status`` displaying error message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the invalid data are entered at any point, the newly created instance is shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > {payg}``, with column [guimenu]``Status`` displaying error message.
```

====

As soon as the authentication data is available on the server, the list of available products is updated.

Available products are all versions of the same product family and architecture as the one installed in the {payg} instance. 
For example, if the instance has the {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP1 product installed, {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP2 and {slsa}{nbsp}15 SP3 are automatically shown in [guimenu]``Admin > Setup Wizard > Products``. 

Once the products are shown as available, the user can add a product to {productname} by selecting the checkbox next to the product name and clicking btn:[Add product].

After the success message you can verify the newly added channels in the {webui}, by navigating to [guimenu]``Software > Channel List > All``. 

> To monitor the syncing progress of each channel, check the log files in the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync`` directory on the {productname} server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To monitor the syncing progress of each channel, check the log files in the [path]``/var/log/rhn/reposync`` directory on the {productname} Server.
```
We usually capitalize "Server" or "Proxy" etc. after `{productname}`.
